# Refinance-car-loan-interest-rate
<b><h2> Reasons for refinancing a car loan </b></h2>
<br>
<b>The repayment of a car loan can be very helpful to the borrower in the following situations:</b>
<br>
<p><b><ol><li type ='1'>Lowering interest rates:</b> If you are experiencing a new/low-interest repayment option during your existing car loan, you can choose this new option and reduce the total Indian Bank Car Loan Interest Rate. All you have to do is pay off your current debt and move on to a new lender. You could also consider repaying your loan if your credit score is higher than your loan period. If this happens, you may be eligible for a loan with a lower interest rate for better terms.</p></li>
<p><b><li>By changing your loan term:</b> With the repayment of your car loan, you can increase/decrease your loan term. If you extend your time by repaying the loan, you can repay your loan longer. This will help you lower your EMIs. However, you need to keep in mind that you may have to pay the full amount (including your interest) at the end of your term which can be calculated with the Car Loan EMI Calculator. On the other hand, if you refinance your loan to reduce the repayment period, you will be able to cancel your loan faster and reduce the interest rate you repay the loan. In this case, your EMIs can go up.</li></p>
 <p> <b> <li>In making changes to the co-signatories agreement:</b> When you renew your loan, you can add a signer or terminate the existing signature. If your current signator no longer wants to provide proof of your payment, then you can remove their responsibility by obtaining a new loan from a different lender.</p></li>
<p> <b> <li>By changing the terms of your car loan:</b> At the time of applying for your current loan, you may not have been very happy with your loan offer. However, you may have settled this loan as it may have been a little better than other options. If you stumble upon a better car loan with better names related to late payments, hypothecation, insurance, application costs, etc., you can choose to redesign to enjoy these better features.</p> </li></ol>
<b><h3>Essential points to keep in mind:</b></h3>
<b><h3>Before you decide to continue repaying your current car loan, you may want to consider the following:</b></h3><br>
<p><b><ul><li>Prepayment penalties: </b>If you choose to refinance your loan, you will need to repay your existing loan. In most cases with advance payment, you will be asked to pay a fine. This penalty can range from 1% to 3%, depending on your lender. Whether you want to repay your loan at a lower interest rate or with better loan terms, you will need to assess your repayment costs in advance and see if they are less than the benefits you will receive on repayment.</p></li>
<p><b><li>Depreciation of your car:</b> Suppose you buy a new car with a car loan. When you consider re-investing in this loan over time, the value of your car may have diminished slightly. Most lenders may not agree to repay the loan if it is too old. Even if they agree, you may not be able to get a good loan agreement.</p></li>
<p><b><li>Lender’s Dependability: </b>When considering re-lending your loan, make sure you choose a reliable lender who offers reliable services. You should avoid ending the lender just because you offer low-interest rates. You can check a lender's reputation by asking friends and family and by doing an online survey about the lender.</p></li>
<p><b><li>Additional payments:</b> If you continue to repay the loan, you will have to apply for a new loan from a new bank. This will require you to pay processing fees and other expenses. You will need to check the cost before you decide to repay the car loan.</p></li></ol>

<h3>Author Bio</h3>
Gaurav S. Khurana is the Founder and CEO of Dialabank and has had a great career in the Banking and Financial Services Sector. He has an experience of 18 years in the sector and has worked at Senior Roles including National Sales Head at ING Investment Management India and as the Vice President Citibank. A post-graduate from IMT, Ghaziabad. Gaurav started his career as a Named Account Manager in Xerox.
Being a part of this field for a long time now, he has written many informative articles and blogs benefiting and assisting many in making decisions regarding the policies provided by various banks and non-banking financial companies such as the  <a href ="https://www.dialabank.com/car-loan/indian-bank-car-loan/">Indian Bank car loan policy.
